From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer on
technologists. Scott Hanselman posted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 71 accorded live
Saturday, June 23rd, 2007. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Tellerik already
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottlerikdotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
windows home server general manager,
Charlie Kendall. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
I'm sitting down here with
Charlie Kendall, the general manager
of the windows home server
team. We've talked a little
bit about home server before.
I think I was able
to mention that I was
a beta tester, but it
was all NDA there for
a long time. So I
wasn't able to talk a
whole lot about home server
and rather than just me
talking about my experience now
that we can speak about
what we're, what we're experiencing
at home server. We actually
want to sit down with
Charlie and talk about the
product what's the, the developer
story is the, some of
the different extensibility APIs and
what the plan is for
the future. Thanks Charlie, for
sitting down, I really appreciate
it. I'm looking forward to
the conversation. Now, this was
originally called, was it project
X or something? No, it
was actually originally when it
was just a, an incubation
project. The code name was
Quatro Quatro. Yeah. And then
as we became a product
group within Microsoft, we renamed
the, the code name for
the product was Q it's
a letter Q Q that
I knew it was a
letter, a single letter project
queue. And I remember that
people were putting on their,
their messenger ch their messenger
nicknames that they were running
project queue. And it was
starting a lot of buzz
around people. This was a
beta that a lot of
people wanted to be on.
Yeah. Now when I got
on it, I actually took
an old media center PC
that I didn't, I wasn't
using and turned it into
a, a windows home server
found every external hard drive
that I could find in
my house and plugged them
all in. And that's the
thing that I think that
people notice the first, when
they plug in a home
server, is that it turns
everything into a big chunk
of storage. Yeah. So I'm
curious, how many hard drives
did you end up with?
I think I ended up
with six varying sizes from
20 gigs up to 500.
Yeah. We had one machine
that we named Fred that
had 23 drives attached to
it at One point, just
as a kind of a
stress test. Yeah. So drive
extender the technology that enables,
you know, we're just talking
about is pretty cool and
we're pretty proud of it.
It, it, it, it gives
you this virtualized storage pool,
the idea that you have,
you know, you can just
add drives in, and you
have a single namespace for
all of your files and
folders. And on top of
that, it provides redundancy with
duplications so that if you
have a failure, you don't
have a hard drive, you
don't lose any data. And
it gives you the benefits
that we've seen from raid
and Ray technologies in the
past with a fraction of
the complexity and far more
flexibility. So forgive my ignorance.
As I only know what
I learned when I've, you
know, learned about rate as
a user and as someone
who's read about it, but
why is it? Is it
that complicated? What is so,
I mean, from everyone I've
talked to about drive extender,
it is really a pretty
amazing piece of software. And
it really is that it's
a software solution. How is
it different from a software
raid solution? Well, first, I'll
start off by saying, you
know, this product is built
for consumers and it's their
primary target are consumers who
are not technical and they're
not geeks. And when we
go talk to these customers
and we, we early on,
we asked them about raid
and, you know, this was
mostly in the U S
and of course their initial
reaction is, well, isn't that
something that kills bugs that
you, you know, you kill
cockroaches with brand recognition because
cause they have, they have
no idea what rate is.
And, you know, a normal
consumer who uses a PC
would never see such horrific
technology and raid really was
designed to solve a problem
in the, you know, in
the corporate computing space, it
was never designed as a
consumer technology. And, and, you
know, it was also, you
know, the, the different grade
levels have been designed over
the years, but it's, it's,
it's a fairly old technology
and it turns out to
be very fragile. It's fragile
from a perspective of, of,
of what, when you do
have a failure, what that
failure looks like. So for
example, if you have a,
a raid one system and
you, so you have mirroring
between two drives, if you
want to replace the, the
drive, the fails, you have
to replace with a drive,
that's basically the same size,
Right. I remember doing rate
early on when I had
a driver one size and
a smaller drive, and I
ended up getting two smaller
drives. That's right. And then,
and then on top of
that, it's, it's usually restricted
to a, you know, a
single bus type. So if
you want to have a
rate array, it's gotta be
all Satta drives or all
IDE drives or all scuzzy
drives. And with drive extender,
we allow you to use
drives of any type and
mix them together and any
size and mix them together.
Yeah. With my, with my
beta that I had, I
ended up with a couple
of 'em external USB drives,
two FireWire drives two internal
IDE drives. And I think
I ended up with something
like 800 Meg, a hundred,
800 gigs who was some
unusual number. It was like
864 gigs or something like
that. Right. I, you know,
we started the project back
when it was still Quatro.
We, we did some prototyping
and had a, had an
early alpha that was actually
based on using software raid,
you know, windows, windows includes
a software raid stack. And,
and we actually use that
initially. And what we found
was that it would be
very difficult for us to
deliver the end user experience.
We really wanted to provide
on top of raid. And
we decided, and we, what
we discovered is that we
could apply our engineering resources
and our IQ to designing
something that actually met the
requirements we had. And in
the end, at the end
of the day, it would
actually be easier for us
to accomplish that, given the,
the expertise that we had
within Microsoft on this topic.
So we're, we're, again, we're
really excited about the idea
that we can, we can
remove so many concepts from
a consumers repertoire. So, you
know, w when you use
windows home server, and you
think about the storage aspects
of it, all, you know,
that you have is you
have hardware, hard disks, and
you have shared folders, right.
And it's really no more
complicated than that. You add
a new hard drive and
your storage pool gets bigger,
and you can have that,
that storage pool is available
to your shared folders. Yeah.
One of the things that
really convinced me that this
was something entirely different was
the first time I opened
the start menu. And there's
only one thing in the
start menu. Yeah. That, that
just, I was like, Oh
yeah, this is an appliance.
I'm not supposed to be
in here at all. That
was pretty amazing. And then
the way that you use
remote desktop, one of the
things that I like about
this is that you installed
a little connector application on
each of your machines in
your home, basically registering each
computer with the home server.
And that, that single tray
icon handles back up handles
health notifications and lets you
connect to the console when
you connect to the console,
you're basically doing what appears
to be a remote desktop
connection into a single application.
So you remote desktop over
to this home server console.
So whether you're logged in
remotely or whether you're logged
in locally, there is only
one application you ever really
need to care about on
a home server. It's that
main console. Yeah. It allows
us also because we've, we've
we built a solution the
way you describe where the,
what we call the home
server console, which is the
tool that the homeowner is
going to use to configure
the server, to change settings
relative to the server that,
that it's, you know, you
think of it. And now
in analogy it's like the
web page you get when
you buy a router and
you go and configure a
router or a wireless point.
Right. Right. Well, that experience
we decided to build using
on top of the remote
desktop technology. And one of
the advantages that it gives
us is the ability for
us to write native windows
code for our administrative console.
We just that, that code
that the whole console is
written using C sharp and
the.net framework and wind forms.
And we're able to do,
you know, be able to
use all those great windows
tools to do that and
not have to go to
the lowest dominant denominator of
a, some server HTML representation,
which is what most, most
of these, these types of
products do. And in addition
to that, it made it
really easy for us to
enable a third party story
where third parties could build,
add ends that that added
into our administration console or
the home server console for
their value added for configuring
their value add What, what
kind of third party things
have you seen developed so
far? I know I've been
pressuring the guys@mozy.com that do
online backup to, to basically
back up my home server.
Well, it's, it's been interesting,
you know, when you, when
you, when you bring out
a new product that has
extensibility and platform capabilities, you
never really know what you're
going to get. You certainly
can try and, you know,
have some targeted efforts to
try and get the people
you believe should be on
the platform to get there.
What we've discovered is that
people are doing some pretty
exciting stuff. There's a couple,
a good list of add
ins that are available on
the internet. There's a blog
called, we got served.co.uk, and
he's got a nice list
of the ones that are
out there, but here's a
couple examples. There's a company
called I think it's called
keep vault. And they have
an online backup service on
internet backup service. So we'll
back up your shared folders
to their service, you know,
on the internet. And they
have a very nice ad
in that, you know, presents
a new tab in our
admin console allows you to
configure that there is an
add in for being able
to upload your photos automatically
to flicker. It's called a
sync. Oh shoot. I think
it's called photo sync. That
was very clever. I didn't
see that one coming. Yeah.
And another one that, that,
you know, that is really
good for the more enthusiast
crowd is wake on land.
There's actually two of these
where people have built add
ins that allow you to
wake up your client computers
from the home server console.
And what that means is
that you can connect into
your house remotely via our
remote access solution. And if
your home computer is turned
off, you can actually wake
it up and turn it
on remotely. So it's not,
it doesn't have to be
on all the time. No,
that's a feature of, of,
of bio of the bios
that has been out for
years, but no, one's really
come up with a great
way to do it. Exactly.
The, the remote access thing
is, is a, is a
really quite extraordinary. The initial
betas, I would go up
and go to like dynamic
DNS org, get myself a
nice dynamic DNS name, like
Hanselman dot something. And then
I would basically connect into
my home server just by
punching a hole in the
firewall. I did my own
port forwarding, and then I
could look at the home
server console and then you
would proxy remote desktop. And
I thought that was the
greatest thing ever. And I
used it all over the
place. It was a much
better solution for me than
using things like hamachi or
go to my PC. And
then I said, well, this
is great. This is brilliant.
And then the release candidate
came out and I noticed
that you guys put up
your own system. I think
it was called live node
that would give people like
my mom or my dad
who would not have the
ability to, you know, bust
holes in their firewall, much
less come up with a
dynamic DNS name. You'll use
their windows live ID, sign
them up for their own
sub domain under something like
live node.com and then they
can get secure access to
their machines. And then you
used a UPNP to talk
to the router, to bust
the hole in the firewall
yourself. I thought that was
about the slickest user experience
I'd seen in a long
time. Yeah. You know, this
is one of those features
that, that we'd plan for
long time and, and knowing
what I've known, knowing about
home networks and the internet,
and, you know, my experience
in building a lot of
software, I knew that this
would be really hard to
get, right. So I was
always a little skeptical, but
the team just delivered and
in conjunction with the windows
live team, what we've delivered
is this out of the
box with windows home server,
you get a free name
on the internet for your
home. And it comes in
the form right now in
the beta and the RC
it's under the tier Terry
domain name of live node.com.
But when we are TM,
that will switch over to
home server.com. And so, so
just like you can sign
up for a Hotmail address
or any other address, you'll
be able to sign up
for whatever you want off
of home server.com. So for
example, you know, I would
be able to get Charlie
Kendall dot home server.com and,
and anywhere I am in
the world, I'll be able
to access my home server
by using that, that URL.
And as you said, we
also will automatically configure your
router if it supports you
UPNP to open the appropriate
ports and make that work.
So what's the security story
there. Now that seems like
a giant honeypot for evil
people to run around it,
you know, in certain name
here dot home server.com. How
are you going to keep
people from using passwords like
password? Yeah, well, one of
the things we've done on
the product is we've we've,
we, we have, you know,
secure, secure by default in
services or off by default.
And so this whole remote
access capability is off by
default. It has to be
explicitly enabled. And if a
user does choose to enable
it, we then enforce complex
passwords. And we think that
that's very important that people
get educated on using complex
password passwords for things where
there's, there's a potential for
people to do brute brute
force as well as actually
us do, you know, going
into the next step of,
of making it so that
it's a requirement that they
do. So Now, one of
the things that I've personally
had a little trouble with
as I recently switched from
Comcast to Fios and or
files Verizon, and they won't
let me run anything over
port 80. So in the
last few weeks, as I've
upgraded to the latest version
of home server and simultaneously
got this new Verizon or
any ISP that blocks port
80, I've become really a
neutered in my ability to
use this thing. What kind
of alternate port abilities will
we have either in this
version or a future version?
Well, fortunately in, in the
first version of the product,
the, the, the, the secure
aspect of our remote access
runs over the SSL port,
which is port four 43,
and port 80 is actually
not necessary. If it's blocked,
the product will still work.
You just can't go to
the, the unprotected homepage. You
have to use an HTTPS
URL. And so for the
situations where the ISP is,
are blocking port 80, it,
it works fine. And the
other, the other part of
this is it turns out
that, that, that from a
worldwide basis, the number of
IPS that are blocking port
80 is actually relatively small,
although that could change, or
it could change for the
better. I, we think that
our product demonstrates that there's
a demand for this type
of thing. And that the
ISP is, you know, our,
our, you know, may choose
to change the way they
think about this. You know,
in the future, we will,
we will continue to improve
this solution. And there's there's
techniques that you can use
for doing, you know, port
redirection and so forth when
you do have a DNS
name. So we will be
looking into those things. So
as a, as an advanced
user myself, if they block
four 43, I could certainly
figure out ways to do
port forwarding and still possibly
use the solution in a,
in a situation like this.
I recognize that a lot
of ISP is aren't blocking
80. It's just that Phylos
is becoming so popular with
their high bandwidth solution. It's
going to be a challenge
to convince people that opening
up port 80 for home
server doesn't necessarily open up
people for running their own
web servers, you know, behind
the firewall, Right? And again,
with the first version of
the product, if you have
the RC right now, if
you are, if you're on
a service that is blocking
port 80, the product actually
worked just fine. And only
problem you have is that,
that, that during our test
where we're testing your internet
connection, we are, our dialog
box will come back and
say, Hey, I can't see
your home server from the
internet. And, but the, the
subsequent tests has pet tests
pass. And what that means
is that as long as
you access your own server
with the HTTPS URL, it
will work fine. So what's
the security story. Then, as
far as my issuing myself,
my own SSL certificate, or
did this home server.com have
a wildcard cert, no, we
are, the home server itself
Is generating a self sign
cert in the RC, and
it will do so also
in our TM, the, the
downside of this solution. And
we recognize that there's an
issue here is when users
go to access that page,
they will be asked to,
you know, effectively ignore a
warning about the validity of
that certificate, because it is
self signed and most internet
browsers don't trust, self sign
certificates. We, you know, we
haven't announced anything here yet,
but we, we are working
on a solution to this
problem that will be made,
made available in the very
near future. And I don't,
I don't want to talk
any more about it. We
haven't announced any details, but
we recognize that this is
an issue. And it's something
that we've been working on
for a long time. And,
and we've got, I think,
a very creative solution that's
in the works Well, I
solve the solution by simply
explicitly trusting it, and then
everything was good. Great. Yeah.
And for, for, for PCs
that are, that have been
joined to the, the windows
home server using the connector
software, right. If you were
to take them on the
road, we automatically install our
cert on those, those client
PCs. So they, they automatically
trust their own home server.
So it's really only when
you're, when you're in an
internet cafe or using someone
else's PC. Now back to
the drive, extended thing. One
of the things that really
struck me when I went
and backed up all the
machines in my house, when
I did the complete, it's
a complete image backup, right?
Correct. The amount of space
that was used up seemed
an unbelievably small on, on
the, on the home server.
I mean, I was backing
up what I thought was
hundreds and hundreds of gigabytes.
Right. And it did not
feel like it also went
so fast. It didn't feel
possible. What am I missing?
Well, here, this is, this
is another one of those
places where I get to
say, I'm extremely proud of
my team because we've created,
we've done some very innovative
stuff. There's really four places
where we have some deep
innovation we're proud of, and
this is one of them.
We talked about drive extender.
We talked about remote access.
And this is the third
one, which is the, the,
the, all the full computer
PC backup. What happens, you
know, we, we, we recognized
very early on one of
the core value propositions we
had to deliver against was
protecting people's data. And we
thought about this from the
perspective of, you know, do
we need to protect the
people who accidentally delete a
file and want to get
that file back? That's the
thick finger delete scenario. We
thought about protecting people who
have a client PC that
goes wrong, and they want
to get that client PC
back because not necessarily because
it has precious data on
it, but because getting it
back to the way it
was yesterday, normally is going
to take days and days
of re reinstalling and reconfiguring.
So it's really protecting time.
And then the third scenario
is the, you know, Oh
my, my house is burned
down or something catastrophic has.
And, you know, fortunately everyone
is safe. And fortunately all
my precious data was backed
up somewhere else. And those
are the way we are
the three areas that we
want to protect against. It
turns out in the first
version, the third one we
did not, we did not
have the time to address
and we will address it
in the future. The other
two, we think we've nailed.
And we think the, the,
the second one I talked
about we've really nailed, which
is the all computer, the
whole computer backup. And here's
how it works. We take
each PC in your house
and we scan all the
hard drives on that PC.
And we take the clusters
that are really, they're generally
four kilobyte clusters. And we
take those, those clusters and
we back them up to
the server, but we do
it in a way where
we only transfer CLA clusters
to the server that have
never been seen by the
server before this is called
single instance, storage. Every cluster
is tagged somehow uniquely Yes.
That it's, it's actually using
a hashing algorithm. Okay. So
you're very standard way of,
you know, taking a block
of data and saying it's
unique or not. And, and
so effectively on the home
server is this database of,
of clusters along with all
the metadata that would be
required to take all those
clusters and turn them back
into the original file system
at a point in time.
And so what this, what
this means is that you,
you have this, this, this
great savings in both what,
how much data is transferred
over the network, but also
how much is actually stored
on the server. And so,
like you, a lot of
people who, who, who run
windows home server with multiple
PCs, backing it up. If
you were to sum up
all the use space on,
on, you know, your four
or five PCs, it may
be two or 300 gigabytes
of data. But if you're
looking at the actual amount
of data, we're storing on
the server, it's in the
50 or 60 gigabytes, which
frankly it is creepy. It
is very creepy, but there,
what was the, there's a
famous quote about the only
difference between magic and technology
is something to do with,
no, it wasn't Any sufficiently
advanced technology is indistinguishable from
magic. There you go. That
was Robert a Highline, I
believe. Yeah. That's exactly what
it feels like though. The
backups are, are ridiculously fast.
And there's a certain sense.
I don't know if maybe
you could solve it in
a UI way, but there's
a certain sense that, well,
nothing really happened. And am
I really protected? It's kind
of, it's, it's, it's interesting,
but it's also nice because
it freed up space for
things like, you know, my
MP3s and my videos. So
when I was thinking, wow,
I don't think a 700
gigs is going to be
enough. It turned out to
be more than enough. Yeah.
I'm glad to hear that,
that you mentioned something that
I think is fascinating is
the UI challenges or user
experience challenges around this. And,
and it, it is a
challenge. And we, we spent
a lot of time with
multiple designs on, on how
to present this. And, and
I'm not convinced we've completely
gotten it right, because as
you, as you mentioned, it's
a, it's, it still doesn't
necessarily present, you know, the,
the complete confidence. But one
of the nice things about
getting the product out there
is we'll be able to,
you know, hear from actual
customers who pay for it,
which, which is a great
way of being able to
iterate. Now, every once in
a while, my home server
will announce that it's balancing
storage. What is that? That
is a part of drive
extender. And what it's doing
there is it is making
sure that one, if you
have a shared folder that
is marked for duplication, it
is actually duplicated. The data
is all, all redundantly stored.
And two, it is making
sure that we are using
your desks that you have
on the most effective way
possible. Okay. So if I
yanked a drive and I
was protected because of duplication
at some point, either at
the point that I yanked
it, or as soon after
a rebalancing would occur and
a redistribution of, of, of
the bites to make sure
that they were, they were
effectively duplicated again, Corrected the,
the actual steps that would
would happen in that case
is, is if you just,
if a drive failed or
you literally just yanked it
out without telling us about
it, your storage status would
go from green to red,
indicating you have a health
problem on your home server.
And then any shared folder
that had files that was,
that was duplicated onto that
drive would go from green,
healthy to yellow failing, which
indicates that, Hey, you know,
your, your, your data's still
here. I still got a
copy of it, but if
you were to lose another
drive, that would be bad.
That's what failing means. And
then if you said, okay,
yeah, that drive is actually
gone. It's dead. And you,
you told us to remove
it via the, the remove
command. We would then go
about making sure that your
data was reduplicated across the,
the other drives you still
had, or the new drive
you, you potentially have added
to replace the one that
was bad. Now, a number
of people have commented to
me that they were surprised
how little hardware they needed
to run home server. And
there's been a lot of
confusion in the blogs about
whether or not home server
would be available to the
moderate to advanced user, or
if it was going to
be exclusively in OEM hardware
agreement. What's the story there
I'll address the question about
the hardware requirements. First, you
know, remember windows home server
is, is, is, is based
on the windows server 2003
code base, which is, you
know, derive from the windows
2000 code base. And, you
know, if you go back
to when windows server 2003
was released, which was, I
believe in, in late 2002,
and you think about the,
the, the high end hardware
that was available that time,
it was 900 megahertz Pentium,
three processors, and the most
advanced workloads on the planet
were running on that hardware
at that point in time,
SQL server I S exchange
and so forth. And so
that the actual Rico resource
requirements for a windows server
2003 server are pretty meager
Heightened. I mean, there's virtually
nothing running on it. You've
hardened it clearly. So, so,
so our resource requirements are
also meager because of that.
So that, that addresses the,
you know, the fact that
it only requires effectively a,
a one gigahertz Pentium, three
equivalent processor and half a
gigabyte of memory. The, the
question about, you know, how
people will be able to
buy the product it's pretty
straight forward. The primary way
that we will, the product
will be sold is through
standard retail channels where consumers
will buy a product built
by an OEM, you know,
Hewlett, Packard, median, see the
other ones that have announced
that they're going to be
building windows home servers. You'll
be able to walk into
your favorite electronic store and,
you know, best buy whatever,
and buy a box, bring
it home, plug it in
and off you go. That's
the primary way. But, you
know, when we, I helped
build windows media center edition.
And when we shipped windows
media center edition, we realized
that we had a, you
know, a core part of
our, our audience, our customer
base, some would argue the
most important part, which is
the enthusiasts really kind of
liked to build their own
hardware. They like to go
and buy, you know, components
from Fry's or new egg.com
or whatever, and, and piece
the machine together the way
they want, and then install
the software on it. And
when we did media center
edition, we didn't make it
available in a way that
that enthusiast could do that.
There were good reasons for
that at the time, the,
the, the hardware for tuner
cards and so forth was
really flaky at that time.
And, and it was so
there are good reasons for
that, but, but it was
a lesson learned. And so
when we started this project,
we applied that learning. And
we said from the beginning
that we would make the
software available in a way
that enthusiasts could build their
own hardware on them. We
are doing that. And we're
doing that through the system
builder channel, which, which, which,
which enables people to, to
buy hardware from a system
builder, the hardware that they
want and, and then install
the software themselves. So we
think we buy by doing
that, we get a, you
know, focus on our primary
market again, which is the,
the, the, the end users
that just want to buy
a, you know, a device
and as well, satisfy the
enthusiast base. It will be
challenging just to get the
software, if I want to
repurpose an existing machine. I,
it's not really. I mean,
it's just, just like today,
if you wanted to go
buy windows, media center edition,
it's possible it's channels. That's
where I just go to,
you know, go to any
of the system builders that
are available online, for example.
Excellent. Excellent. And do you
see this as competing with
something like a  or
any of these other kinds
of a single purpose backup
systems, or do you think
it's because of the addition
of the remote access and
the shared, you know, shared
users and all that kind
of stuff, does it, it,
it appears to be more
than just a backup robot.
It's so much more, but
do you think that people
will compare it to those
kinds of appliances? Well, it's
hard for me to say
what people will do in
terms of, of comparing things.
I, my personal belief is
that we are building a
product that is very unique,
and it has, you know,
from, from a scenario perspective
of what the, the value
it delivers to the customer,
nothing comes close. And, you
know, it ranges from the
fact that we provide centralized
storage for all of your
PCs. We provide a comprehensive
data protection system that, that
isn't some app you install
on a, on a client
PC and configure, and, you
know, and then have to
manually do stuff. The product
does it for you. It
provides a rich remote access
capability. It allows you to
access your PCs and your
files remotely. And then on
top of that, it is
a platform, right. We've already
seen evidence of the, the,
the third party ad-ons that
are coming online. You know,
there's already, you know, more
than several dozen in the
work. So we're aware of,
right. It was definitely a
test that the developer SDK
is very cool and creating,
you know, editing the manifest
files and creating your own
extensions onto the UI are
really very, very easy. Yeah.
So, so, you know, I,
I think all of that
combines to a product that,
that is, that is very
unique. And, and I don't
think there's anything out there
that you can compare it
to. I think that you
could take any one of
our, our, our solutions, and
you may be able to
find a product in the
market that, that, that tries
to deliver that particular part
of the solution, but not
nothing that does it in
such an integrated way. Great.
I'm going to put up
on the website links to
the home server, STK the
home servers site, some of
your channel nine videos in
the past. I'm personally, I've
talked about this when it
first came out and I
was allowed to talk after
the NDA was lifted, but
the I'm, I'm totally excited
about this. I, I actually,
I got a little trouble
for it, but I made
the statement that was more
excited about home server than
I was about Vista. And
frankly, I'm kind of still
there. I mean, this, this
it's, it's changed the amount
of, I call it psychic
weight. You carry around a
certain amount of psychic weight.
If your stuff's not backed
up and knowing that your
entire house was backed up.
Yeah. There's a certain amount
of lightness of being that
occurs when you're, when, when
everything you have is, is
backed up and, and I'm,
I'm really excited about HomeServe.
And I really appreciate you
taking the time to talk
with me today. No, I'm
gratified To hear you say
that, because I think that,
you know, that was one
of our goals going in,
and I also, I appreciate
you taking the time as
this is a good conversation,
and I enjoy, I really
enjoy listening to your podcasts.
Well, thanks. This has been
Scott Hanselman with Charlie Kendall,
and this was another episode
of Hansel minutes. We'll see
you again next week.